[pulsar-doc] Add document for Pulasr SNI routing with ATS (#7421)
apache/pulsar: site2/docs/concepts-proxy-sni-routing.md

---
id: concepts-proxy-sni-routing
title: Proxy support with SNI routing
sidebar_label: Proxy support with SNI routing
---

# Pulsar Proxy with SNI routing

> A proxy server is a go‑between or intermediary server that forwards requests from multiple clients to different servers across the Internet. The proxy server can act as a “traffic cop,” in both forward and reverse proxy scenarios, and adds various benefits in your system such as load balancing, performance, security, auto-scaling, etc.. There are already many proxy servers already available in the market which are fast, scalable and more importantly covers various essential security aspects that are needed by the large organization to securely share their confidential data over the network. Pulsar already provides proxy implementation which acts as a reverse proxy and creates a gateway in front of brokers. However, pulsar doesn’t provide support to use other proxies such as Apache traffic server (ATS), HAProxy, Nginx, Envoy those are more scalable and secured. Most of these proxy-servers support SNI ROUTING which can route traffic to a destination without having to terminate the SSL connection. Routing at layer 4 gives greater transparency because the outbound connection is determined by examining the destination address in the client TCP packets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A proxy server is a go‑between or intermediary server that forwards requests from multiple clients to different servers across the Internet. The proxy server acts as a “traffic cop,” in both forward and reverse proxy scenarios, and adds various benefits in your system such as load balancing, performance, security, auto-scaling, etc.. There are already many proxy servers already available in the market which are fast, scalable and more importantly covers various essential security aspects that are needed by the large organization to securely share their confidential data over the network. Pulsar provides proxy implementation which acts as a reverse proxy and creates a gateway in front of brokers. However, pulsar doesn’t provide support to use other proxies such as Apache traffic server (ATS), HAProxy, Nginx, Envoy those are more scalable and secured. Most of these proxy-servers support SNI ROUTING which can route traffic to a destination without having to terminate the SSL connection. Routing at layer 4 gives greater transparency because the outbound connection is determined by examining the destination address in the client TCP packets.
```

> [PIP-60](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/wiki/PIP-60:-Support-Proxy-server-with-SNI-routing) eexplains SNI routing protocol and how Pulsar clients support SNI routing protocol to connect to brokers via proxy. This document explains how to setup ATS proxy and pulsar-client to enable SNI routing and connect pulsar-client to pulsar-broker via ATS proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PIP-60](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/wiki/PIP-60:-Support-Proxy-server-with-SNI-routing) explains SNI routing protocol and how Pulsar clients support SNI routing protocol to connect to brokers via proxy. This document explains how to setup ATS proxy and pulsar-client to enable SNI routing and connect pulsar-client to pulsar-broker via ATS proxy.
```

## ATS-SNI Routing in Pulsar

> [ATS supports layer-4 SNI routing](https://docs.trafficserver.apache.org/en/latest/admin-guide/layer-4-routing.en.html) with requirement that inbound connection must be TLS. Pulsar client supports SNI routing protocol and we can use ATS proxy in front of brokers, so pulsar client can connect to broker via ATS proxy. Pulsar also supports SNI routing for geo-replication, so brokers can connect to cross cluster brokers via ATS proxy.

Reviewer: 1. I did not get the meaning of the first  sentence.
2. Try to use the second person when writing technical document, see https://developers.google.com/style/person
3. Try not use modal verbs like "can" to avoid ambiguity. "Can" have two meanings:
 a. be able to do sth
 b. the possibility to do sth

Reviewer: what does "in front of brokers" mean?

### ATS Proxy setup for layer-4 SNI routing

> This section explains ATS-setup to enable layer-4 SNI routing and use ATS proxy as a forward proxy where the pulsar broker runs behind the ATS proxy and client connects to pulsar-broker through this ATS proxy.

Reviewer: It would be better if  you can write clear and concise sentences, it's easy to read and understand.
Avoid writing long-winded sentences, see https://developers.google.com/style/tone#some-things-to-avoid-where-possible

![Snip20200701_37](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2898254/86283497-09ac5980-bb96-11ea-8b2b-45351977bd55.png)

> We have to configure two conf files into ATS proxy to support SNI routing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To  support SNI routing, you need to xxx.
```

```
String brokerServiceUrl = “pulsar+ssl://pulsar-broker-vip:6651/”;
String proxyUrl = “pulsar+ssl://ats-proxy:443”;
ClientBuilder clientBuilder = PulsarClient.builder()
		.serviceUrl(brokerServiceUrl)
        .tlsTrustCertsFilePath(TLS_TRUST_CERT_FILE_PATH)
        .enableTls(true)
        .allowTlsInsecureConnection(false)
        .proxyServiceUrl(proxyUrl, ProxyProtocol.SNI)
        .operationTimeout(1000, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS);

Map<String, String> authParams = new HashMap<>();
authParams.put("tlsCertFile", TLS_CLIENT_CERT_FILE_PATH);
authParams.put("tlsKeyFile", TLS_CLIENT_KEY_FILE_PATH);
clientBuilder.authentication(AuthenticationTls.class.getName(), authParams);

PulsarClient pulsarClient = clientBuilder.build();
```

### Pulsar geo-replication with SNI routing

> We can also use ATS proxy for geo-replication. Pulsar broker has capability to connect to cross colo brokers for geo-replication using SNI routing. In order to enable SNI routing for cross cluster broker connection we have to configure SNI proxy URL to cluster metadata. If cluster metadata has SNI proxy url configured then broker will connect to cross cluster broker via proxy over SNI routing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can also use ATS proxy for geo-replication. The Pulsar broker can connect to cross colo brokers for geo-replication using SNI routing. In order to enable SNI routing for cross cluster broker connection, we have to configure SNI proxy URL to the cluster metadata. If the cluster metadata has SNI proxy URL configured, the broker connects to cross cluster broker through the proxy over SNI routing.
```
what does the colo mean? a typo or a technical word?

> ![Snip20200701_36](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2898254/86283369-c94cdb80-bb95-11ea-865e-34ddfe1ad33f.png)

Reviewer 2: In general, all images related about pulsar docs are placed in the asset folder. could you please put the original image to that folder and update the local path for the image?

> In this example, we have a pulsar cluster deployed into two separate regions, us-west and us-east. We have also configured ATS proxy in both the regions, and brokers in each region running behind this ATS proxy. Now, we will configure cluster metadata for both the clusters, so brokers in one cluster will use SNI routing and connect to brokers in other clusters via ATS proxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, we have a pulsar cluster deployed into two separate regions, us-west and us-east. We have also configured ATS proxy in both the regions, and brokers in each region run behind this ATS proxy. Now, we configure the cluster metadata for both the clusters, so brokers in one cluster can use SNI routing and connect to brokers in other clusters through the ATS proxy.
```

> (a) Configure cluster metadata for us-east with us-east broker service url and us-east ATS proxy url with SNI proxy-protocol.

Reviewer 2: If this is an ordered task, use "1,2,3..." instead of "a, b,c..."
```suggestion
(a) Configure the cluster metadata for us-east with us-east broker service URL and us-east ATS proxy URL with SNI proxy-protocol.
```

```
./pulsar-admin clusters update \
--broker-url-secure pulsar+ssl://east-broker-vip:6651 \
--url http://east-broker-vip:8080 \
--proxy-protocol SNI \
--proxy-url pulsar+ssl://east-ats-proxy:443
```

> (b) Configure cluster metadata for us-east with us-east broker service url and us-east ATS proxy url with SNI proxy-protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(b) Configure the cluster metadata for us-east with us-east broker service URL and us-east ATS proxy URL with SNI proxy-protocol.
```
us-west?

---
id: concepts-proxy-sni-routing
title: Proxy support with SNI routing
sidebar_label: Proxy support with SNI routing
---

## Pulsar Proxy with SNI routing

> A proxy server is an intermediary server that forwards requests from multiple clients to different servers across the Internet. The proxy server acts as a "traffic cop" in both forward and reverse proxy scenarios, and brings various benefits to your system such as load balancing, performance, security, auto-scaling, etc. There are already many proxy servers available in the market which are fast and scalable. More importantly, these proxy servers cover various essential security aspects that are needed by the large organizations to securely share their confidential data over the network. Pulsar provides proxy implementation which acts as a reverse proxy and creates a gateway in front of brokers. However, pulsar does not supports to use other proxies such as Apache Traffic Server (ATS), HAProxy, Nginx, and Envoy. These proxies are more scalable and secured. Most of these proxy-servers support **SNI routing** which is used to route traffic to a destination without terminating the SSL connection. Routing at layer 4 provides greater transparency because the outbound connection is determined by examining the destination address in the client TCP packets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A proxy server is an intermediary server that forwards requests from multiple clients to different servers across the Internet. The proxy server acts as a "traffic cop" in both forward and reverse proxy scenarios, and brings various benefits to your system such as load balancing, performance, security, auto-scaling, etc. There are already many proxy servers available in the market which are fast and scalable. More importantly, these proxy servers cover various essential security aspects that are needed by large organizations to securely share their confidential data over the network. Pulsar provides a proxy implementation which acts as a reverse proxy and creates a gateway in front of brokers. However, pulsar does not supports using other proxies such as Apache Traffic Server (ATS), HAProxy, Nginx, and Envoy. These proxies are more scalable and secured. Most of these proxy-servers support **SNI routing** which is used to route traffic to a destination without terminating the SSL connection. Routing at layer 4 provides greater transparency because the outbound connection is determined by examining the destination address in the client TCP packets.
```

> [PIP-60](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/wiki/PIP-60:-Support-Proxy-server-with-SNI-routing) explains SNI routing protocol and how Pulsar clients support SNI routing protocol to connect to brokers through the proxy. This document explains how to set up the ATS proxy and the Pulsar client to enable SNI routing and connect Pulsar client to the broker through the ATS proxy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[PIP-60](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/wiki/PIP-60:-Support-Proxy-server-with-SNI-routing) explains the SNI routing protocol and how Pulsar clients support SNI routing protocol to connect to brokers through the proxy. This document explains how to set up the ATS proxy and the Pulsar client to enable SNI routing and connect Pulsar client to the broker through the ATS proxy.
```

### ATS-SNI Routing in Pulsar
[ATS supports layer-4 SNI routing](https://docs.trafficserver.apache.org/en/latest/admin-guide/layer-4-routing.en.html) with the requirement that inbound connection must be a TLS connection. The Pulsar client also supports SNI routing protocol on TLS connection and that allows Pulsar to use ATS as a reverse proxy when Pulsar client wants to connect to broker through ATS proxy. Therefore, this section explains how to set up and use ATS as a reverse proxy so pulsar clients can connect to brokers through the ATS proxy using SNI routing protocol on TLS connection. Pulsar also supports SNI routing for geo-replication, so brokers can connect to cross cluster brokers through the ATS proxy.

#### ATS Proxy setup for layer-4 SNI routing

This section explains how to set up ATS proxy to enable layer 4 SNI routing which will be used by Pulsar to use ATS as a reverse proxy.

![Pulsar client SNI](assets/pulsar-sni-client.png)

> To  support SNI routing, you need to configure two files: `records.conf` and `ssl_server_name.conf`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To support SNI routing, you need to configure two files: `records.conf` and `ssl_server_name.conf`.
```

The following example shows mapping of inbound SNI hostname coming from the client and the actual broker’s service URL where request should be redirected. For example, if the client sends the SNI header `pulsar-broker1`, the  proxy creates a TLS tunnel by redirecting request to the service URL `pulsar-broker1:6651` 

**Example:**

```
server_config = {
  {
     fqdn = 'pulsar-broker-vip',
     # Forward to Pulsar broker which is listening on 6651
     tunnel_route = 'pulsar-broker-vip:6651'
  },
  {
     fqdn = 'pulsar-broker1',
     # Forward to Pulsar broker-1 which is listening on 6651
     tunnel_route = 'pulsar-broker1:6651'
  },
  {
     fqdn = 'pulsar-broker2',
     # Forward to Pulsar broker-2 which is listening on 6651
     tunnel_route = 'pulsar-broker2:6651'
  },
}
```
Once, `ssl_server_name.config` and `records.config` are configured, ATS-proxy server is ready to handle SNI routing and can create TCP tunnel between the client and the broker.

#### Pulsar-client Configuration with SNI routing

> Now, ATS proxy server is configured and ready to handle SNI routing and create the TCP tunnel between the client and the broker. Here, we have to note that ATS SNI-routing works only with TLS. Therefore, the ATS proxy and brokers must have TLS enabled before the Pulsar client configures SNI routing protocol to connect to the broker through ATS proxy. With [PIP-60](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/wiki/PIP-60:-Support-Proxy-server-with-SNI-routing), the pulsar client supports SNI routing by connecting to the proxy and sending target the broker URL into the SNI header. The Pulsar client handles SNI routing internally and the entire connection handling is abstracted from the user. Users only need to configure the following proxy configuration initially when the user creates a Pulsar client to use SNI routing protocol.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, the ATS proxy server is configured and ready to handle SNI routing and create the TCP tunnel between the client and the broker. Here, we have to note that ATS SNI-routing works only with TLS. Therefore, the ATS proxy and brokers must have TLS enabled before the Pulsar client configures the SNI routing protocol to connect to the broker through ATS proxy. With [PIP-60](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/wiki/PIP-60:-Support-Proxy-server-with-SNI-routing), the pulsar client supports SNI routing by connecting to the proxy and sending target the broker URL into the SNI header. The Pulsar client handles SNI routing internally and the entire connection handling is abstracted from the user. Users only need to configure the following proxy configuration initially when the user creates a Pulsar client to use the SNI routing protocol.
```

String proxyUrl = “pulsar+ssl://ats-proxy:443”;
ClientBuilder clientBuilder = PulsarClient.builder()
		.serviceUrl(brokerServiceUrl)
        .tlsTrustCertsFilePath(TLS_TRUST_CERT_FILE_PATH)
        .enableTls(true)
        .allowTlsInsecureConnection(false)
        .proxyServiceUrl(proxyUrl, ProxyProtocol.SNI)
        .operationTimeout(1000, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS);

Map<String, String> authParams = new HashMap<>();
authParams.put("tlsCertFile", TLS_CLIENT_CERT_FILE_PATH);
authParams.put("tlsKeyFile", TLS_CLIENT_KEY_FILE_PATH);
clientBuilder.authentication(AuthenticationTls.class.getName(), authParams);

PulsarClient pulsarClient = clientBuilder.build();
```

#### Pulsar geo-replication with SNI routing

We can also use ATS proxy for geo-replication. The Pulsar broker can connect to cross colo brokers for geo-replication using SNI routing. In order to enable SNI routing for cross cluster broker connection, we have to configure SNI proxy URL to the cluster metadata. If the cluster metadata has SNI proxy URL configured, the broker connects to cross cluster broker through the proxy over SNI routing.

![Pulsar client SNI](assets/pulsar-sni-geo.png)

> In this example, we have a pulsar cluster deployed into two separate regions, us-west and us-east. We have also configured ATS proxy in both the regions, and brokers in each region run behind this ATS proxy. Now, we configure the cluster metadata for both the clusters, so brokers in one cluster can use SNI routing and connect to brokers in other clusters through the ATS proxy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, we have a Pulsar cluster deployed into two separate regions, us-west and us-east. We have also configured ATS proxy in both regions and brokers in each region run behind this ATS proxy. Now, we configure the cluster metadata for both the clusters, so brokers in one cluster can use SNI routing and connect to brokers in other clusters through the ATS proxy.
```
